Prompt for Knowledge-Grounded Question Generation
[ROLE & TASK]
You are an expert visual-language reasoning agent. You are provided with: (1) a set of localized entities extracted
from a video, and (2) their corresponding retrieved external knowledge (which may reveal their ground-truth
identities).
Task: Evaluate the provided multi-modal context, select the most appropriate questioning strategy, and synthesize
exactly ONE complex, knowledge-intensive reasoning question.
[QUESTIONING STRATEGIES (Select Exactly ONE)]
• Strategy 1: Single-Entity Deep Dive. (Optimal when one entity is highly significant but lacks strong
inter-entity correlation). Select ONE key entity and formulate a question that probes deeply into its specific
historical, cultural, functional, or logical background (e.g., its origin, franchise, or operational mechanics).
• Strategy 2: Multi-Entity Connection. (Optimal when there is a latent historical, logical, or functional link
between entities). Select AT LEAST TWO entities and formulate a question that explores the underlying
relationships, shared context, or contrasts between them.
[STRICT GENERATION CONSTRAINTS]
• Implicit Referencing (No Name Leaking): Do NOT use or reveal any real entity names found in the
external knowledge within the question. You must use natural visual referring expressions instead. (e.g.,
instead of naming the object, use “the object with a red logo on the table” or “the structure in the
background”).
• Multi-Modal Dependency: The question must strictly demand both visual grounding (identifying/dif-
ferentiating the target entities in the video) and external knowledge reasoning. It must be impossible to
answer using only text (pure lookup) or only the image (pure perception).
• Complexity & Uniqueness: The question must be specific, challenging, and necessitate multi-step
reasoning. The answer should be uniquely determinable given the combined visual-textual context.
• Forbidden Typologies: Pure text-lookup queries (e.g., “In what year was the Eiffel Tower built?”) and
pure visual-perception queries (e.g., “What color is the rabbit?”) are strictly prohibited.
[OUTPUT FORMAT]
Return ONLY a valid JSON object.
{
"question": "A deep reasoning question based on the chosen strategy, without revealing real
entity names",
"ground_truth":
"The
correct
answer
derived
from
both
visual
context
and
external
knowledge",
"reasoning": "Explanation of strategy selection and how answering requires BOTH visual
grounding and external knowledge"
}
Selected Entities & Knowledge:
{context}
Figure 6: The structured prompt for knowledge-grounded question generation used in Sec. 3.1. The LLM acts as an
agent that dynamically selects a questioning strategy and synthesizes multi-step reasoning questions while strictly
adhering to visual-referencing constraints to prevent information leakage.
