--- PAGE 1 ---
Deep Video Discovery : Agentic Search with Tool Use
for Long-form Video Understanding
Xiaoyi Zhang∗1
Zhaoyang Jia∗2†
Zongyu Guo1
Jiahao Li1
Bin Li1
Houqiang Li2
Yan Lu1
1Microsoft Research Asia
2University of Science and Technology of China
{xiaoyizhang, zongyuguo, jiahaoli, binli, yanlu}@microsoft.com
{jzy_ustc, lihq}@ustc.edu.cn
Abstract
Long-form video understanding presents significant challenges due to extensive
temporal-spatial complexity and the difficulty of question answering under such ex-
tended contexts. While Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated consid-
erable advancements in video analysis capabilities and long context handling, they
continue to exhibit limitations when processing information-dense hour-long videos.
To overcome such limitations, we propose the Deep Video Discovery (DVD) agent
to leverage an agentic search strategy over segmented video clips. Unlike previous
video agents that rely on predefined workflows applied uniformly across different
queries, our approach emphasizes the autonomous and adaptive nature of agents. By
providing a set of search-centric tools on multi-granular video database, our DVD
agent leverages the advanced reasoning capability of LLM to plan on its current
observation state, strategically selects tools to orchestrate adaptive workflow for
different queries in light of the gathered information. We perform comprehensive
evaluation on multiple long video understanding benchmarks that demonstrates our
advantage. Our DVD agent achieves state-of-the-art performance on the challeng-
ing LVBench dataset, reaching an accuracy of 74.2%, which substantially surpasses
all prior works, and further improves to 76.0% with transcripts. The code has been
released at https://github.com/microsoft/DeepVideoDiscovery.
Video 
Database
Search
Toolset
LLM with 
Reasoning
“Who gets the
lollipop last?”
Thought:
subtask(1) I need to first …
Tool use:
ClipSearch(“lollipop”)
Observation:
Relevant clips captions: …
Thought:
subtask(2) I need to …
Tool use: 
GlobalBrowse()
…
gathering info …
gathering info …
“The zombie gets it at 
last according to the 
observation that…”
…
Figure 1: Left: Illustration of our Deep Video Discovery agent, which autonomously reasons on user
query, iterative use tools to obtain the final answer. Right: Performance comparison on LVBench.
∗Equal contribution.
†This work was done during the internship at Microsoft Research Asia as an open-source project.
39th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2025).
arXiv:2505.18079v4  [cs.CV]  3 Nov 2025

--- PAGE 2 ---
1
Introduction
Long-form videos are ubiquitous in everyday life, spanning diverse domains such as movies, meeting
recordings, sports games, and variety shows. Accurately comprehending and interpreting content
within these extensive videos remains an intrinsically challenging task [8, 26, 31], demanding an
ability to simultaneously integrate and reason about intricate spatiotemporal details across broad
global contexts. Effective retrieval of relevant information from hour-long or even longer sequences
not only necessitates attending to fine-grained local details but also simultaneously interpreting
subtle semantic relations distributed throughout extended temporal intervals. Recent advancements in
Large Language Models (LLMs) and Large Vision-language Models (VLMs) have notably improved
capabilities in video understanding [17, 4, 28] and increased context length handling more than one
million tokens [17, 25, 33]. However, even this extended context length remains insufficient for
comprehending the information density typically found in long-form videos of hour-long duration.
Empirical observations [17] also suggest a decline in the model’s effective instruction-following
ability and reasoning clarity as the temporal dimension and information density increase.
Concurrently, recent breakthroughs [11, 18] on reasoning capability of LLMs have facilitated
advances in agentic systems capable of complex information gathering tasks, such as Deep Re-
search [16, 10, 20] or Deep Search [2, 3]. These agentic approaches demonstrate how decomposing
difficult tasks into modular sub-tasks enables iterative reasoning, information searching, and content
synthesis. Inspired by these successes, we conceptualize the challenge of understanding extremely
long videos as a multi-step information search problem, where the video serves as the exploration
environment and is segmented into multiple shorter video clips serving as manageable units of
information. We name our approach as Deep Video Discovery (Fig. 1, left).
While existing video agent frameworks [34, 7, 19, 30] incorporate searching processes in their designs,
they manually design the search process with their human prior. For instance, both VideoTree [30]
and VCA [34] employ tree-based search strategies that navigate from root nodes to leaf nodes.
This approach alleviates the context length limitations of VLMs but is inefficient for fine-grained
queries which might benefit more from direct retrieving among leaf nodes. Additionally, semantically
relevant entities may not exhibit temporal proximity, potentially diminishing the efficiency of backdate
mechanism in tree-based search methods. Most critically, these existing frameworks prescribe fixed
workflows that are uniformly applied across all query types, failing to adapt to the diverse information
needs and optimal search strategies required by different questions.
In contrast to existing systems that typically rely on manually defined, rigid workflows, our approach
is distinctly designed around an autonomous and adaptive agentic search paradigm for different
queries. Instead of explicitly prescribing task workflows or search behaviors, we develop modular
search tools that operate at multiple granularities, including (1) Global Browse, (2) Clip Search, and
(3) Frame Inspect. Global Browse enables global summarization and indexing of subjects and global
contexts across the entire video. Clip Search implements efficient semantic retrieval of relevant events
within segmented clips. Specifically, Frame Inspection empowers the agent to extract fine-grained
details directly from pixel-level information in a specified temporal range.
Equipped with this search-centric toolkit and multi-granular video database, our agent is inherently
capable of autonomous reasoning, dynamic strategy orchestration, and iterative decision-making
to proactively discover and extract crucial evidence. By leveraging the sophisticated reasoning
capabilities intrinsic in the latest LLM, our agent does not merely use these tools independently, but
adaptively combines their complementary strengths into a chain of thoughts and tool uses, effectively
addressing diverse temporal-spatial and complex questions for long video. In the end, Deep Video
Discovery can autonomously reason, plan, and retrieve pertinent information through adaptive search
strategies tailored to specific video understanding queries.
We conduct comprehensive evaluations on long video benchmarks, demonstrating the efficiency and
strong performance of our agent. In particular, on the challenging LVBench, we push forward the
state-of-the-art performance by a large margin to 74.2% (as shown in Fig. 1, right), further achieving
76.0% with auxiliary transcripts. We also set a series of ablation studies that show the effectiveness
of our tool design. In addition, we analyze the behavior patterns of different reasoning models in tool
use sequences, providing future insight of developing agents for long video understanding tasks.
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
Multi-grained Video Database
Search-centric Toolset
LLM with 
Reasoning
User Query
plan &
action
observation &
thinking
Answer
Global Browse
Clip Search
Frame Inspect
Global Subjects
Clip Captions
Indexed Frames
Long Video
Multi-granular 
Video Database
Large VLM
Video Clips
subjects
captions
indexed 
frames
Stage 1: Multi-granular Video Database Construction
Stage 2: Agentic Search and Answer with Tool Use
Figure 2: Deep Video Discovery consists of two stages: 1) Multi-granular Video Database Construc-
tion. We extract video information from different levels to enable comprehensive understanding,
efficient retrieval, and preservation of original content. 2) Agentic Search and Answer. The agent
iteratively reasons on user query and leverage the tailored toolset to gather information to answer.
2
Related Work
Long Video Understanding.
Long video understanding remains a formidable challenge due to
the intricate demands of temporal and spatial reasoning over extended durations and the complexity
of information retrieval [31, 26]. Recent efforts in VLM for long video understanding primarily
tackle challenges of limited input frame number by extending the context length of models [25, 6]
or minimizing video redundancy to reduce visual token numbers [12, 14, 28]. Approaches such as
AdaRETAKE [28] dynamically compress visual token by allocating adaptive compression ratios across
time and model layers, thus significantly expanding the effective input frame number. However, token
compression inherently introduces uncertainty regarding information loss, and models continue to
face difficulties when answering complex queries under elongated context windows. In parallel, given
the sparsity of key information about the given query, some works [27, 7, 34, 30, 19, 32] propose
to explore the video content by agentic system. But they usually manually guide the agent about
the search workflow by their priors [34, 30] or only allow the agent at simplex frame granularity to
search [27], which cannot make full use of the reasoning capability of LLMs, resulting in suboptimal
search efficiency and a lack of holistic, global comprehension of the long video content.
Agent and tool use.
Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs), particularly their
enhanced reasoning and planning capabilities, have significantly accelerated the development of
autonomous agents [35, 39, 38, 40]. The ability to leverage external tools [23, 22, 21] further narrows
the gap between general-purpose LLMs and real-world applications, enabling LLMs to acquire
information, perform planning, and execute actions in complex environments. Our work extends
this line of research to long video understanding, contributing to the broader investigation of solving
complex video understanding tasks by integrating the advanced reasoning capabilities of LLMs
with tool use. We introduce a suite of search-centric tools that allow LLMs to autonomously gather
information at varying levels of granularity. By dynamically composing these tools, the agent can
construct multi-step tool-use chains to improve the ability to answer complex queries effectively.
3
Deep Video Discovery
Overview.
To solve the long-form video understanding problem in an agentic search way, we first
build a multi-grained structured database from the long-form video. The database then serves for
search-centric tools that work at different granularities. Specifically, our Deep Video Discovery agent
consists of three main components: the multi-grained video database D, search-centric toolset T ,
and the LLM M as the agent’s orchestrator. Given the user query Q, the agent reasons iteratively
to choose an action Ai ∈T ∪{ANSWER} with parameters P to gather information for the video
database D or make decision to answer the query by referring to the accumulated information in this
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
process. In the following subsections, we sequentially introduce the multi-grained video database
construction and Agentic Search and Answer with Tool Use.
3.1
Multi-granular Video Database Construction
Given an ultra long input video V , our goal is to transform it into a database that can provide
efficient fast retrieval and also provide the original pixels of video for detailed information when
necessary. Hence, we design it in a multiple granularity style which can provide different levels of
video information for corresponding search tools. Specifically, we first segment the video into clips
as the basic information unit then make the database include global summarized information to cover
the whole video, a clip-based caption corpus and indexed frames from the clip. Fig. 2 (left) provides
an overview. We introduce these components sequentially.
Temporal segmentation.
We start by uniformly partitioning the input video V into a temporal
sequence of non-overlapping short clips {vi}N
i=1, where the total segments N = ⌈len(V )
t
⌉. Empirically,
we set t = 5 seconds to provide an adequate balance between computing cost and semantic and
action completeness. Then all the video clips are decoded into frames {fi}N
i=1 under 2 frames per
second for further process.
Multi-granular information extraction.
Our multi-granular video information is designed as three
levels: global video level, clip level and frame level. Specifically, at the global level we summarize
the video content into a compact, subject-centric representation. At the clip level, we leverage
textual captions to facilitate efficient information retrieval, while at the frame level we preserve
original decoded frames indexed according to their corresponding clips, enabling precise reference
and detailed analysis when required.
To derive the subject-centric global representation while minimizing redundancy in caption generation,
we maintain an progressive structured subject registry S throughout the clip captioning process.
Specifically, given a video clip vi and decoded frame fi, we prompt a large VLM to generate
the captioning ci and evolve registry whenever new subjects appear. The process is denoted as
Si, ci = V LM(fi, Si−1) where S0 is initialized as empty, and at the conclusion of the captioning
process, the final subject registry is denoted by S = SN. Each subject within the registry is
represented by a comprehensive set of attributes, including name, physical appearance, identity
descriptors, associated actions, and corresponding temporal spans in the video. The obtained caption
ci is subsequently embedded into a dense semantic vector ei ∈Rd using a language embedding model,
facilitating fast retrieval in downstream applications. Despite careful design choices, perceptual
compression inherent in caption generation inevitably entails some information loss. To mitigate this
when necessary, we explicitly retain the decoded frames fi alongside their corresponding textual
captions and embeddings.
Outcome.
The finalized database therefore encapsulates the decoded frames, captions and cor-
responding embedding triples, thus forming a structured database D = {S, {fi, ci, ei}N
i=1}. This
offline construction procedure transforms a lengthy raw video into a structured set of textually
searchable embeddings with associated clips, while simultaneously preserving the complete visual
content at pixel resolution. The resulting database becomes the basis for adaptive tool usage, enabling
global information browsing, efficient semantic retrieval at the video-clip scale, and comprehensive
grounding of generated outputs back to their source frames.
3.2
Agentic Search and Answer with Tool Use
With the built multi-granular video database, we design a set of search-centric tools that can enable
global information understanding, efficient clip retrieval by semantic query, and details exploration on
original video content. By equipping a reasoning large language model with this toolset, we build our
DVD that can address complex user query on long video though autonomous planning and strategical
search tool combination, as shown in Fig. 2 (right). We refer to this stage as Agentic Search and
Answer with Tool Use (ASA). We introduce this stage through two subsections: Search-centric Tool
Preparation and Agent Design.
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
Table 1: Action space overview of our
DVD. The first three actions are from our
toolset and the final ANSWER action is de-
signed as stop criterion.
Action
Parameter
GLOBAL
BROWSE
video database D
user query Q
CLIP
SEARCH
video database D
agent synthesized query ˆQ
return top-k captions
FRAME
INSPECT
video database D
agent synthesized query ˆQ
temporal range [ts, te]
ANSWER
the answer to user query
Algorithm 1: Agentic Search and Answer.
Input
:Initial query Q, max step N, LLM M, tool
set T , action space A = T ∪{ANSWER}
Output :Answer to Q
Initialize history H0 ←{Q, A}
for i ←1 to N do
Ri ←M.reason(Hi−1)
Ai, Pi ←M.call(Ri, Hi−1) where Ai ∈A
if Ai = ANSWER then
break
end
Oi ←Ai(Pi)
Hi ←Hi−1 ∪{(Ri, Ai, Oi)}
if t = N then
Pi ←M.answer(Hi)
end
end
return ANSWER(Pi)
3.2.1
Search-centric Tool Preparation
Leveraging the established video database, we have developed a suite of tools designed to efficiently
gather information from video data at varying levels of granularity. Specifically, we divide long
videos into three distinct hierarchical levels and introduce corresponding specialized tools: (1) Global
Browse, (2) Clip Search, and (3) Frame Inspect. Given the significant computational cost associated
with processing lengthy videos using VLMs, our tool design carefully balances efficiency and
performance. Central to our approach is an agentic search paradigm, wherein the agent decomposes
the user query and strategically chains up tools with synthesized parameters, enabling iterative
reasoning and information collection to resolve the task. Through the effective integration and
coordinated use of these tools, the agent progressively enhances its understanding of user intent and
precisely locates relevant information within extensive video content. We introduce the three tools
sequentially in the following paragraphs.
Tool: Global Browse.
The Global Browse tool takes the video database and the original user query
as input, and returns global summaries capturing high-level contextual information. We construct two
distinct types of global information: subject-centric and event-centric summaries. For subject-centric
summarization, we pre-construct it when building the multi-granular video dataset as mentioned
in Section 3.1 since it is query-irrelevant. For event-centric summarization, we uniformly sample
frames across the entire video and feed these sampled frames into the VLM. We instruct the VLM to
describe noteworthy events explicitly related to the original user query. Upon invocation by the agent,
the Global Browse tool efficiently retrieves and returns these global representations, providing the
agent immediate access to high-level global context information.
Tool: Clip Search.
Clip Search provides a mid-level granularity retrieval capability, enabling fast
and efficient exploration of video content via caption embedding. Given a query ˆQ synthesized
based on the agent’s current internal reasoning context, this module retrieves a ranked list of top-k
relevant video clips along with their captions. Specifically, the tool computes the cosine similarity
between the embedding of the provided query and the pre-computed embeddings of all video clip
captions, returning the clips corresponding to the highest-ranked caption matches. Each retrieved
observation contains both the corresponding caption and the time ranges of the associated video
clip. To achieve an accurate and detailed understanding, the agent can iteratively invoke this tool,
progressively refining temporal constraints or reformulating its queries based on newly acquired
contextual knowledge. This iterative chain-of-query approach effectively guides the agent toward
precise temporal segments relevant to the original high-level query.
Tool: Frame Inspect.
Frame Inspect receives a temporal range [ts, te] within the video and an
sub-query freely defined by the agent as input, returning an open format visual-question-answering
(VQA) response. The agent can invoke this tool whenever explicit frame-level details such as subtle
attributes, object counting, or fine-grained spatial relationships, are required but not clearly depicted
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
in captions or global summaries. The open-ended query format allows significant freedom for the
agent to leverage its reasoning capability, enabling highly adaptable visual inspection. Specifically,
the Frame Inspect tool loads raw frames from the requested interval and prompts a VLM with these
frames and agent-synthesized query. To ensure computational efficiency, we limit processing to a
maximum of 50 frames, uniformly sampling from frames exceeding this limit. The resulting response
thus equips the agent with accurate, visually-grounded evidence essential for detailed reasoning tasks.
3.2.2
Agentic Design
To maximally leverage the reasoning and planning capacity intrinsic to modern LLMs, we intention-
ally abstain from manually instructing explicit seaching workflow or tool utilization patterns. Instead,
we enable the agent to reason, plan, and take actions through a streamlined iterative observe-reason-
act loop, similar to ReAct[35]. For a given query, the agent reasons about its current observation state,
strategically selects search tools, formulates appropriate parameters for actions, and dynamically
refines its internal reasoning in light of the gathered evidence. Within ASA, the LLM acts as a
sophisticated cognitive driver, taking actions at each iteration based on cumulative knowledge and
reasoned evidence, thereby reinforcing its pivotal role in adaptively navigating the discovery process.
Specifically, as illustrated in Algorithm 1, given an initial user query Q, a predefined action
space A = T ∪{ANSWER}, and a maximum allowable step count N, our agent performs iter-
ative reasoning to strategically navigate the available actions. The agent leverages an LLM M
to reason upon the current dialogue history, plan its immediate action, interact with the toolset
T = {GLOBALBROWSE, CLIPSEARCH, FRAMEINSPECT}, and collect observations Oi. More con-
cretely, at each step t, the agent maintains a historical context Hi, reflects to generate a reasoning step
Ri, selects an action Ai ∈T ∪{ANSWER} accompanied by relevant parameters Pi, and receives
subsequent observation outcomes Oi from the environment. These components, reasoning, action,
and obtained outcomes, are successively appended to the interaction history Hi, enriching the context
for subsequent iterations of inference. The iterative process terminates either when the agent explicitly
selects the ANSWER action, or upon reaching the step limit N, at which prompts the agent directly
generates a final answer prediction. The agent then outputs the final answer to the original user query.
By positioning the LLM’s sophisticated reasoning at the core of this iterative loop, this approach
endows the agent with an inherently autonomous, evidence-guided, and flexible action-taking mecha-
nism. This autonomous and iterative paradigm fosters a strategic and context-sensitive inquiry cycle,
thereby enabling the agent to effectively leverage the available tools to iteratively decompose the
original query into progressively refined sub-queries, updating and improving the query representation
as it receives new observations. Through iterative reasoning and interaction cycles, guided by deeper
and increasingly comprehensive observations collected from prior tool usage, the agent systematically
enhances its understanding and interpretation of the task context, ultimately leading to more accurate
and informed answers to the given question.
4
Experiment
4.1
Benchmarks
We assess the long-form video understanding capabilities of Deep Video Discovery using several es-
tablished long video benchmarks. Our primary evaluation benchmark, LVBench [26], includes 1,549
multiple-choice questions across 103 hour-long videos. It stands as one of the most comprehensive
and challenging benchmarks for extreme long-form video understanding. LongVideoBench [31]
features 6,678 questions from 3,763 videos, ranging in duration from a few seconds to an hour. We
emphasize the longest subset with durations in (900s, 3600s] (denoted as the Long subset), compris-
ing 564 questions from 188 videos. Video MME [8] is segmented by video duration; we concentrate
on the Long subset without subtitles to isolate long-video comprehension, covering 300 videos of 30
to 60 minutes with 900 questions. Finally, EgoSchema [15] serves as a diagnostic benchmark for
long-video understanding, where we evaluate on its validation split of 500 videos with 500 questions.
4.2
Implementation Details
Baselines. We compare Deep Video Discovery with a range of long-video understanding systems,
including both VLM-based [24, 1, 18, 9, 36, 29, 37, 4, 13, 28] and agent-based approaches [30, 7,
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
Table 2: Comparison on LVBench under different question categories. The metric shown is accuracy
(%).
Methods
ER
EU
KIR
TG
Rea
Sum
Overall
Commercial VLMs
Gemini-1.5-Pro [24]
32.1
30.9
39.3
31.8
27.0
32.8
33.1
Gemini-2.0-Flash [24]
47.4
48.5
56.8
39.3
44.4
41.4
48.6
GLM-4V-Plus [9]
46.2
47.8
54.1
42.7
46.5
37.9
48.7
GPT-4o [1]
48.9
49.5
48.1
40.9
50.3
50.0
48.9
OpenAI o3 [18]
57.6
56.4
62.9
46.8
50.8
67.2
57.1
Open-Source VLMs
InternVL2.5-78B [29]
43.8
42.0
42.1
36.8
51.0
37.9
43.6
VideoLLaMA3-7B [37]
45.8
42.4
47.8
35.9
45.8
36.2
45.3
Qwen2.5-VL-72B [4]
-
-
-
-
-
-
47.7
VideoChat-Flash [13]
51.1
46.0
49.0
38.9
48.5
34.5
48.2
AdaRETAKE [28]
53.0
50.7
62.2
45.5
54.7
37.9
53.3
Video Agents and Others
VideoTree [30]
30.3
25.1
26.5
27.7
31.9
25.5
28.8
VideoAgent [27]
28.0
30.3
28.0
29.3
28.0
36.4
29.3
VCA [34]
43.7
40.7
37.8
38.0
46.2
27.3
41.3
MR. Video [19]
59.8
57.4
71.4
58.8
57.7
50.0
60.8
Deep Video Discovery (Ours)
73.4
73.3
80.4
72.3
70.7
74.1
74.2
+ Auxiliary transcripts
75.5
77.1
79.0
72.7
68.7
84.5
76.0
34, 19]. Most baseline results are taken from official leaderboards or published reports, except for the
recently released OpenAI o3 [18], which has not yet been evaluated on these benchmarks. Following
[19], we uniformly sample 256 frames per video to evaluate OpenAI o3.
Deep Video Discovery flexibly integrates different models depending on the needs of each component.
For the VLM in video database construction, we use GPT-4.1 [17] to produce high-quality captions
on LVBench, and GPT-4.1-mini for other benchmarks to reduce cost. During agentic search and
answering, we employ OpenAI o3 as LLM M for its strong reasoning ability, including in the Frame
Inspect module for fine-grained VQA. All frames are resized to 720p to maintain visual details. In
Clip Search, we set 16 as the default value of top-k while leaving the flexibility for LLM to change it.
Maximum reasoning step is set to N = 15. To explore the upper bound of understanding ability, we
additionally evaluate LVBench using auxiliary transcripts. Audio is transcribed with WhisperX[5],
and transcripts are used to guide video segmentation and enrich captions. This audio-visual fusion
enhances understanding of long, complex content, leading to stronger results.
API Content filtering. We use LLM API via Azure OpenAI Service. We observe that the safety
content filtering mechanism of the service misjudges a small part of data from the benchmark as
offensive and block the request, which leads to the reduced performance of both OpenAI o3 baseline
and our DVD agent. We provide more details and mitigation strategies in Appendix A.3.2.
4.3
Main Results
Table 2 presents the comparison results on LVBench. DVD significantly outperforms all baselines,
surpassing the previous SOTA MR. Video by 13.4%. Compared to the prior leading video agent VCA,
our method achieves a remarkable 32.9% gain. Against our base VLM, OpenAI o3, our full system
delivers a substantial 17.1% gain, highlighting the importance of agentic reasoning. Incorporating
transcript information provides an additional 1.8% boost. These results highlight the effectiveness of
our search-centric agentic reasoning framework in handling ultra-long video understanding tasks.
Table 3 provides a comprehensive evaluation across several long-video benchmarks.
On
LongVideoBench, DVD outperforms the previous SOTA by 4.1% overall and 7.0% on the longest-
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
Table 3: Comparison on long video benchmarks.
Methods
LVBench
LongVideoBench (Val)
Video MME
EgoSchema
Overall
Overall
Long
Long (w/o sub)
Val
Commercial VLMs
Gemini-1.5-Pro [24]
33.1
64.0
58.6
67.4
-
Gemini-2.0-Flash [24]
48.3
-
45.7
63.0
71.2
GPT-4o [1]
48.9
66.7
60.9
65.3
70.4
OpenAI o3 [18]
57.1
67.5
60.6
64.7
63.2
Open-Source VLMs
mPLUG-Owl3 [36]
43.5
59.8
-
50.1
-
InternVL2.5-78B [29]
43.6
63.6
-
62.6
-
Qwen2.5-VL-72B [4]
47.7
60.7
-
63.9
-
AdaRETAKE [28]
53.3
67.0
-
65.0
-
Video Agents and Others
VideoTree [30]
28.8
-
-
-
67.0
VideoAgent [27]
29.3
-
-
-
63.2
VCA [34]
41.3
-
-
-
73.6
MR. Video [19]
60.8
-
61.6
61.8
73.0
Deep Video Discovery (Ours)
74.2
71.6
68.6
67.3
76.6
Table 4: Ablation on used models. Mdatabase for cap-
tioning in database construction, Mreasoning for reason-
ing in ASA, Mtool for Frame Inspect.
Adopted models
LVBench
Mdatabase
Mreasoning
Mtool
w/ transcripts
4.1
o3
4.1-mini
72.3
4.1
o4-mini
o3
70.2
4.1
4o
o3
62.3
4.1-mini
o3
o3
71.9
4.1
o3
o3
76.0
Table 5: Ablation on the search-centeric tools T .
Note that the anchor uses 4.1-mini for Mdatabase,
and o3 for both Mreasoning and Mtool.
Search-centeric Tools
LVBench
Global
Browse
Clip
Search
Frame
Inspect
w/ transcripts
✓
✓
69.0
✓
✓
59.6
✓
✓
63.5
✓
✓
✓
71.9
duration subset. On the Video MME Long subset, it beats the best open-source VLM, AdaRETAKE,
by 2.3%, and MR. Video by 5.5%, approaching the performance of Gemini-1.5-Pro. On EgoSchema,
our method exceeds the previous best by 3.0%. Notably, it exceeds reported human-level accuracy of
∼76% on this benchmark. Across all datasets, our system consistently outperforms the base VLM
OpenAI o3, confirming the effectiveness and generalizability of our agentic reasoning framework.
4.4
Ablation Study
We evaluate the impact of different model choices across system components. By default, GPT-4.1 is
used for captioning and subject extraction during Multi-granular Video Database Construction and
OpenAI o3 serves as the reasoning model in the Agentic search and Answer with tool use process
while Frame Inspect tool also leverages OpenAI o3 to query the fine-grained details on the frame
pixels. We denote the three models as Mdatabase, Mreasoning and Mtool in Table 4. Replacing
GPT-4.1 with GPT-4.1-mini for database construction or Frame Inspect tool results in moderate drops
of 4.1% and 3.7%, respectively, indicating relatively minor impact. For reasoning model in agentic
search, switching to OpenAI o4-mini [18] leads to a 5.8% drop, while GPT-4o causes a substantial
13.7% decline. It highlights the reasoning model as the most critical component in our agentic system
because our system is designed surrounding and to make full use of the reasoning capability of
LLM. The lack of reasoning ability leads to the collapse of agent behavior, as analyzed further in the
subsequent subsection.
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
Table 6: Comparison of DVD agent with different
LLMs as reasoning models on LVBench. * denotes
Qwen3-32B-Thinking model.
Category
Model
Accuracy (%)
DVD w/
closed-sourced
OpenAI o3
76.0
GPT-4o
62.3
DVD w/
open-sourced
DeepSeek-R1
68.5
DeepSeek-V3
57.5
Qwen3-32B∗
57.3
Table 7: Comparison DVD and its variation on
different max step number.
Max Step Limit
8
12
15
Ours
Avg. Actual Steps
6.7
7.2
7.3
Accuracy (%)
72.3
73.8
74.2
Ours w/ VideoAgent [27] workflow
Avg. Actual Steps
5.0
8.3
11.1
Accuracy (%)
48.4
66.3
70.2
OpenAI o3
Steps / Score = 7.6 / 76.0
OpenAI o4-mini
Steps / Score = 5.8 / 70.2
GPT-4o
Steps / Score = 4.6 / 62.3
Score
Score
Score
SA (53.3%)
5.2 / 84
GBO (2.8%)
3.0 / 95
IS (6.1%)
8.0 / 71
FIT (10.4%)
10.7 / 63
CST (27.4%)
11.6 / 58
Behavior Type (Ratio) 
Steps / Score
SA (71.9%)
4.8 / 75
GBO (2.9%)
3.0 / 91
IS (5.8%)
7.7 / 56
FIT (3.4%)
9.6 / 45
CST (16.0%)
9.4 / 54
SA (91.4%)
4.6 / 56
GBO (5.5%)
3.0 / 76
IS (0.7%)
6.3 / 36
FIT (1.6%)
7.6 / 36
CST (0.7%)
7.2 / 45
Ratio
Score
SA
Simple Action
IS
Iterative Search
FIT
Frame Inspect Trap
CST
Clip Search Trap
GBO 
Global Browse Only
Figure 3: Analysis of the behavior of Deep Video Discovery using different reasoning models. We
categorize tool-calling behavior into five types. For each type, we report its proportion (Ratio, sector
angels), average reasoning steps (Steps, sector radius) and score (Score, dashed lines). A clear
correlation emerges among behavior patterns, reasoning depth, and score (see Section 4.6 for details).
We next examine how the choice of reasoning model affects performance when pairing DVD with
various open-source LLMs on LVBench. As reported in Table 6, combining DVD with the open-
source DeepSeek-R1 reasoning model yields 68.5% accuracy, surpassing all prior methods. Notably,
even when restricted to a 32B model Qwen3-32B, DVD attains 57.3% accuracy, outperforming
existing VLM approaches, including GPT-4o and OpenAI o3.
Finally we assess the contribution of each tool in the agentic search and answer phase (Table 5).
Removing Global Browse which is responsible for global summarization and long-range event linking
leads to a 2.9% drop. Disabling Frame Inspect with the fine-grained VQA results in a 8.4% decline,
highlighting its role in fine-grained understanding. Removing Clip Search causes the largest drop of
12.3%, as it breaks the searching ability for iteratively refine reasoning. These results underscore the
importance of tool integration in our search-centric framework.
4.5
Analysis on Efficiency
To understand the efficiency of our designed agent, we compare DVD’s performance with different
maximum step limits on LVBench without transcripts. Since the core strength of DVD lies in its
adaptive workflow orchestrated by the reasoning model, we also evaluate a variant that replaces this
adaptive workflow with the hand-crafted workflow from VideoAgent [27] while keeping all other
settings identical. Specifically, the VideoAgent workflow follows a fixed sequence: first predicting
answers and confidence scores, then identifying missing information through self-reflection, searching
video clips for the missing information, merging found information into current observations, and
finally re-predicting answers and confidence scores. As shown in Table 7, the hand-crafted approach
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
results in a significant 7.5% absolute accuracy drop while requiring more steps. Even when scaled
to 11.1 average steps (52% more than our DVD), the hand-crafted workflow achieves only 70.2%
accuracy, still 4.0% below our adaptive approach. This comparison highlights the superior search
efficiency of our adaptive workflow design.
4.6
Analysis on Agentic Reasoning Behavior
The reasoning model is the most critical component in DVD. During the observe-reason-act loop, the
agent autonomously integrates current context and flexibly decides the next tool to invoke. To better
understand this, we analyze the tool-calling behavior during the agentic search and answer phase
and category it into five types for analysis (see Fig. 3). At the same time, we provide more detailed
qualitative case study in Appendix B.2.
Global Browse Only. The agent confidently answers after a single Global Browse call. This pattern,
though rare, correlates with very high accuracy, suggesting the initial global context was sufficient.
Simple Action. The agent follows a direct search-inspect-answer path, typically involving one or
two Clip Search and Frame Inspect calls. This is the most common and effective strategy, employed
in over half of the queries and achieving high accuracy.
Iterative Search. The agent alternates between Clip Search and Frame Inspect multiple times. This
indicates an initial difficulty in locating sufficient information, requiring a more exploratory approach.
These trajectories are longer (e.g., 8.0 vs. 5.2 steps for OpenAI o3) and yield slightly lower accuracy
than a Simple Action.
Frame Inspect Trap. The agent becomes stuck in a loop of fine-grained analysis, invoking Frame
Inspect more than three consecutive times without reaching a conclusion. This behavior leads to
prolonged reasoning chains and significantly lower accuracy.
Clip Search Trap. The agent repeatedly calls Clip Search more than three times consecutively,
often when key information is absent from the video database. The agent fails to adapt, resulting in
unproductive loops. This pattern is a primary failure mode for the OpenAI o3 model.
This analysis yields two key insights into designing effective autonomous video agents:
Insight 1: The dual nature of reasoning length. For a single model, longer reasoning trajectories
often signal uncertainty and correlate with lower accuracy (e.g., Simple Action vs. Iterative Search).
However, when comparing across models, superior performance is often achieved by the model
capable of conducting more thorough, and thus longer, reasoning processes.
Insight 2: Overconfidence leads to behavioral collapse. The GPT-4o model significantly un-
derperforms, collapsing into the Simple Action pattern for 91.4% of queries. With an average of
only 4.6 reasoning steps, it frequently concludes prematurely, rarely exploring alternative strategies.
This ”overconfidence“ and lack of flexibility appear to be the primary cause of its poor performance,
highlighting the need for agents that can balance exploitation with exploration.
5
Conclusion
We introduces the proposed Deep Video Discovery agent for long-form video understanding, utilizing
multi-granular search tools on constructed database for iterative search and reasoning over extensive
video content. Our approach outperforms prior methods by adaptively integrating global browsing,
clip search, and frame inspection, as demonstrated by state-of-the-art results on multiple benchmarks.
Ablation studies confirm the effectiveness of our tool design, while analyses of reasoning model
behavior provide insight into model reasoning patterns. Overall, our framework offers a scalable and
flexible solution for comprehensive analysis of long videos.
Limitations. While our agent significantly improves long video understanding, the iterative reasoning
introduces higher computational overhead. In future work, we will explore more effective database
construction and searching to reduce reasoning difficulty and thereby lower computational costs.
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
Change Log
• v1 (2025-05-23): Initial submission.
• v2 (2025-05-28): Fixed the evaluation code to correctly account for answers enclosed in parentheses,
resulting in consistently improved reported accuracy.
• v3 (2025-07-24): GitHub repository link update.
• v4 (2025-11-03): Camera-ready version. Update Tab. 6 and 7 to discuss efficiency of our DVD.
References
[1] J. Achiam, S. Adler, S. Agarwal, L. Ahmad, I. Akkaya, F. L. Aleman, D. Almeida,
J. Altenschmidt, S. Altman, S. Anadkat, et al.
GPT-4 technical report.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.08774, 2023.
[2] J. AI. DeepSearch - Jina AI. https://jina.ai/deepsearch/, 2025.
[3] X. AI. Grok 3 Beta — The Age of Reasoning Agents. https://x.ai/news/grok-3, 2025.
[4] S. Bai, K. Chen, X. Liu, J. Wang, W. Ge, S. Song, K. Dang, P. Wang, S. Wang, J. Tang, et al.
Qwen2.5-VL technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.13923, 2025.
[5] M. Bain, J. Huh, T. Han, and A. Zisserman. Whisperx: Time-accurate speech transcription of
long-form audio. INTERSPEECH 2023, 2023.
[6] Y. Chen, F. Xue, D. Li, Q. Hu, L. Zhu, X. Li, Y. Fang, H. Tang, S. Yang, Z. Liu, et al. Longvila:
Scaling long-context visual language models for long videos. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.10188,
2024.
[7] Y. Fan, X. Ma, R. Wu, Y. Du, J. Li, Z. Gao, and Q. Li. VideoAgent: A memory-augmented
multimodal agent for video understanding. In ECCV, 2024.
[8] C. Fu, Y. Dai, Y. Luo, L. Li, S. Ren, R. Zhang, Z. Wang, C. Zhou, Y. Shen, M. Zhang, et al.
Video-MME: The first-ever comprehensive evaluation benchmark of multi-modal LLMs in
video analysis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.21075, 2024.
[9] T. GLM, A. Zeng, B. Xu, B. Wang, C. Zhang, D. Yin, D. Zhang, D. Rojas, G. Feng, H. Zhao,
et al. ChatGLM: A family of large language models from GLM-130B to GLM-4 all tools. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2406.12793, 2024.
[10] Google. Gemini Deep Research - your personal research assistant. https://gemini.google/
overview/deep-research, 2025.
[11] D. Guo, D. Yang, H. Zhang, J. Song, R. Zhang, R. Xu, Q. Zhu, S. Ma, P. Wang, X. Bi, et al.
Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learning. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2501.12948, 2025.
[12] Y. Han, Q. Guo, L. Pan, L. Liu, Y. Guan, and M. Yang. Dynfocus: Dynamic cooperative
network empowers llms with video understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.12355, 2024.
[13] X. Li, Y. Wang, J. Yu, X. Zeng, Y. Zhu, H. Huang, J. Gao, K. Li, Y. He, C. Wang, Y. Qiao,
Y. Wang, and L. Wang. VideoChat-Flash: Hierarchical compression for long-context video
modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.00574, 2024.
[14] X. Liu, Y. Shu, Z. Liu, A. Li, Y. Tian, and B. Zhao. Video-xl-pro: Reconstructive token
compression for extremely long video understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.18478, 2025.
[15] K. Mangalam, R. Akshulakov, and J. Malik. EgoSchema: A diagnostic benchmark for very
long-form video language understanding. In NeurIPS, 2023.
[16] OpenAI.
Introducing
deep
research.
https://openai.com/index/
introducing-deep-research/, 2025.
[17] OpenAI. Introducing GPT-4.1 in the API. https://openai.com/index/gpt-4-1/, 2025.
Accessed: 2025-04-14.
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
[18] OpenAI.
Introducing OpenAI o3 and o4-mini.
https://openai.com/index/
introducing-o3-and-o4-mini/, 2025. Accessed: 2025-05-15.
[19] Z. Pang and Y.-X. Wang. Mr. video:" mapreduce" is the principle for long video understanding.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.16082, 2025.
[20] Perplexity. Introducing Perplexity Deep Research. https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/
blog/introducing-perplexity-deep-research, 2025.
[21] Y. Qin, S. Hu, Y. Lin, W. Chen, N. Ding, G. Cui, Z. Zeng, X. Zhou, Y. Huang, C. Xiao, et al.
Tool learning with foundation models. ACM Computing Surveys, 57(4):1–40, 2024.
[22] C. Qu, S. Dai, X. Wei, H. Cai, S. Wang, D. Yin, J. Xu, and J.-R. Wen. Tool learning with large
language models: A survey. Frontiers of Computer Science, 19(8):198343, 2025.
[23] T. Schick, J. Dwivedi-Yu, R. Dessì, R. Raileanu, M. Lomeli, E. Hambro, L. Zettlemoyer,
N. Cancedda, and T. Scialom. Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves to use tools.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:68539–68551, 2023.
[24] G. Team, R. Anil, S. Borgeaud, J.-B. Alayrac, J. Yu, R. Soricut, J. Schalkwyk, A. M. Dai,
A. Hauth, K. Millican, et al. Gemini: a family of highly capable multimodal models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2312.11805, 2023.
[25] G. Team, P. Georgiev, V. I. Lei, R. Burnell, L. Bai, A. Gulati, G. Tanzer, D. Vincent, Z. Pan,
S. Wang, et al. Gemini 1.5: Unlocking multimodal understanding across millions of tokens of
context. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.05530, 2024.
[26] W. Wang, Z. He, W. Hong, Y. Cheng, X. Zhang, J. Qi, X. Gu, S. Huang, B. Xu, Y. Dong, et al.
LVBench: An extreme long video understanding benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.08035,
2024.
[27] X. Wang, Y. Zhang, O. Zohar, and S. Yeung-Levy. VideoAgent: Long-form video understanding
with large language model as agent. In ECCV, 2024.
[28] X. Wang, Q. Si, J. Wu, S. Zhu, L. Cao, and L. Nie. Adaretake: Adaptive redundancy reduction
to perceive longer for video-language understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.12559, 2025.
[29] Y. Wang, X. Li, Z. Yan, Y. He, J. Yu, X. Zeng, C. Wang, C. Ma, H. Huang, J. Gao, et al.
InternVideo2.5: Empowering video MLLMs with long and rich context modeling. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2501.12386, 2025.
[30] Z. Wang, S. Yu, E. Stengel-Eskin, J. Yoon, F. Cheng, G. Bertasius, and M. Bansal. VideoTree:
Adaptive tree-based video representation for LLM reasoning on long videos. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.19209, 2024.
[31] H. Wu, D. Li, B. Chen, and J. Li. Longvideobench: A benchmark for long-context interleaved
video-language understanding. In NeurIPS, 2024.
[32] Y. Yan, S. Jiang, T. Cao, Y. Yang, Q. Yang, Y. Shu, Y. Yang, and L. Qiu. Empowering agentic
video analytics systems with video language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.00254, 2025.
[33] A. Yang, B. Yu, C. Li, D. Liu, F. Huang, H. Huang, J. Jiang, J. Tu, J. Zhang, J. Zhou, et al.
Qwen2. 5-1m technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.15383, 2025.
[34] Z. Yang, D. Chen, X. Yu, M. Shen, and C. Gan. VCA: Video curious agent for long video
understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.10471, 2024.
[35] S. Yao, J. Zhao, D. Yu, N. Du, I. Shafran, K. Narasimhan, and Y. Cao. ReAct: Synergizing
reasoning and acting in language models. In ICLR, 2023.
[36] J. Ye, H. Xu, H. Liu, A. Hu, M. Yan, Q. Qian, J. Zhang, F. Huang, and J. Zhou. mPLUG-OWL3:
Towards long image-sequence understanding in multi-modal large language models. In ICLR,
2024.
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
[37] B. Zhang, K. Li, Z. Cheng, Z. Hu, Y. Yuan, G. Chen, S. Leng, Y. Jiang, H. Zhang, X. Li, P. Jin,
W. Zhang, F. Wang, L. Bing, and D. Zhao. Videollama 3: Frontier multimodal foundation
models for image and video understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.13106, 2025.
[38] K. Zhang, J. Li, G. Li, X. Shi, and Z. Jin. Codeagent: Enhancing code generation with tool-
integrated agent systems for real-world repo-level coding challenges. In Proceedings of the 62nd
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 13643–13658, 2024.
[39] Z. Zhang, X. Zhang, W. Xie, and Y. Lu. Responsible task automation: Empowering large
language models as responsible task automators. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.01242, 2023.
[40] Z. Zhang, X. Liu, X. Zhang, J. Wang, G. Chen, and Y. Lu. Ui-evol: Automatic knowledge
evolving for computer use agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.21964, 2025.
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
A
Evaluation Details
A.1
Prompts
We describe the prompts used by different models within the proposed DVD, including: (1) Captioning
and subject extraction model Mdatabase used in Multi-granular Video Database Construction (Tab. 9);
(2) Reasoning model Mreasoning used in Agentic Search and Answer (Tab. 10); (3) Fine-grained detail
querying model Mtool used in the Frame Inspect tool (Tab. 11); (4) event-centric global information in
the Global Browse tool(Tab. 12). The JSON schema for tool use of OpenAI model are also provided
in Tab. 13 and Tab. 14.
A.2
Cost
We measure the average API cost of our agent when calling OpenAI o3 on LVBench. On average,
DVD incurs a cost of $0.213 with 0.15 million tokens per question with OpenAI API price at
2025-11-03.
A.3
Azure OpenAI Service
We utilize the LLM API through Azure OpenAI Service to evaluate both our proposed DVD agent
and the OpenAI o3 model [18]. However, we note two key limitations in the service that may affect
performance: (1) a restriction on the maximum number of input images, and (2) a safety content
filtering mechanism. This section discusses their impact and our mitigation strategies.
A.3.1
Maximum Image Count Limitation
Azure OpenAI Service imposes a limit of 50 images per request, which is significantly lower than
the token limit allowed by Large VLMs we used. This restriction poses notable challenges in tasks
involving long-form video understanding, as the model’s comprehension capability strongly depends
on the number of input frames provided. To overcome this limitation and deliver richer visual context
within the imposed constraints, we adopt a strategy of combining multiple frames into a single
composite image:
For DVD, we horizontally splice up to 5 frames into a single image. This allows us to input up to
250 frames (50 images × 5 frames). Note that we only use the 250 frames setting in event-centric
global information gathering in the Global Browse tool while maximum 50 frames are used in the
Frame Inspect tool.
For OpenAI o3, we use a 2×4 format—splicing up to 4 frames horizontally and stacking 2 such
groups vertically per image. This enables our test condition of 256 frames by using 32 spliced images.
We find that this configuration yields better performance than the 1×5 format used in DVD.
A.3.2
API Content Filtering
Azure OpenAI’s safety filtering mechanism occasionally misclassifies benign inputs as offensive,
blocking some requests. This affects the performance of both OpenAI o3 and our DVD agent. For
such filtered questions, we adopt different mitigation strategies to reduce its influence.
For OpenAI o3, when a query is blocked, we randomly select an answer from the remaining
candidates. Across benchmarks, approximately 10% to 25% of queries are filtered, as shown in Tab. 8.
To better assess true performance, we also report scores on the subset of unfiltered responses, where
performance improves significantly.
For DVD, when VLM returns none due to the content filtering, we do not implement additional error
handling for the agent. Instead, we let the agent make its own decisions to handle error. It may invoke
alternative tools or attempt to answer based on available information. If a captioning query is blocked,
we leave the corresponding entry blank in the database. While this affects database completeness, the
agent remains operational due to its adaptive behavior. Tab. 8.
14

--- PAGE 15 ---
Table 8: Statistics for content filtering in Azure OpenAI API.
Methods
LVBench
LongVideoBench (Val)
Video MME
EgoSchema
Overall
Overall
Long
Long (w/o sub)
Val
OpenAI o3
57.1
66.7
59.6
64.7
63.2
Unfiltered Ratio
83%
90%
85%
83%
75%
Unfiltered Subset Score
63.3
71.5
72.6
73.2
77.5
Deep Video Discovery (Ours)
71.9
70.5
68.4
66.8
76.6
Unfiltered Ratio
24%
61%
40%
24%
54%
Unfiltered Subset Score
70.5
71.6
70.5
69.7
77.0
B
More Results
B.1
Statistical Significance
To assess the statistical significance of DVD, we evaluate it on LVBench (using auxiliary transcrip-
tions) three times. It achieves an average score of 74.0 with a variance of 0.125, demonstrating the
consistency and robustness of the proposed method.
B.2
Case Study
We provide illustrative examples of the tool-calling process for different agent behaviors described in
Section 4.5 of the paper. All examples are from LVBench [26]. Each example highlights how the
agent selects actions and invokes tools to gather information for answering the question, and how
each tool call retrieves relevant data from the database. In the tool responses, we highlight useful and
correct information in orange and useless or incorrect information in purple.
Global Browse Only is shown in Fig. 4. When asked about the type of video, the agent directly
invokes Global Browse to retrieve global context. The subject-level browsing reveals many technical
subjects, while the event-level browsing summarizes the key themes and categorizes the video as a
technology documentary. Based on this information, the agent correctly classifies the video into a
technology documentary.
Simple Action is shown in Fig. 5. In this case, Global Browse incorrectly indicates that the mirror
fragments are thrown away. To verify, the agent uses Clip Search to locate the time range of the
mirror breaking event and then calls Frame Inspect for finer-grained analysis. It discovers that the
fragments actually fly into the sky and thus selects the correct answer.
Iterative Search is shown in Fig. 6. This question involves multiple subjects (boy, dog, cat, bird,
and man), making it more complex. Global Browse initially suggests that the man is chasing the
dog. However, the first round of Clip Search and Frame Inspect indicates that he is chasing a bird.
To resolve the ambiguity, the agent issues two more Clip Search queries for events involving "man
chasing dog" and "man chasing bird". The search yields relevant and useful results only for the later,
suggesting that the man is actually chasing the bird. To confirm the subject’s identity, the agent
checks for the presence of a mustache. Convinced that the mustached man is chasing the bird, the
agent selects the correct option. Notably, when a Frame Inspect call fails to find relevant results in
step 6, the agent can automatically ask another question to obtain an useful response.
Frame Inspect Trap is shown in Fig. 7. This question targets an event at a specific timestamp.
Around this time, the agent asks three consecutive questions. While Frame Inspect sometimes
captures accurate information, it occasionally fails to interpret frames correctly, providing misleading
responses. As a result, the agent cannot discern which information is reliable and ultimately answers
incorrectly.
Clip Search Trap is shown in Fig. 8. This example relies on identifying the correct time range using
key terms like “protagonist” and “utility room.” However, the database contains few directly relevant
captions or subjects. Despite the agent’s attempts to rephrase and refine its Clip Search queries, the
tool fails to return relevant results, leading to an incorrect answer.
15

--- PAGE 16 ---
// system prompt
You are a helpful assistant.
// user prompt
There are consecutive frames from a video. BENCHMARK_CUSTOM_PLACEHOLDER Please understand the video clip
with given corresponding transcript and historical subject information then output following JSON format
with filled content:
Transcript of the current video clip:
[TRANSCRIPTS]
Historical subject information:
[SUBJECTS]
Output template:
{
"clip_start_time": CLIP_START_TIME,
"clip_end_time": CLIP_END_TIME,
"new_subject_registry": { # add new subjects if any not in the historical subject information else leave
it empty
<new_subject_id>: {
"name": <new_subject_name if the name is unknown please use ’unknown’>,
"appearance": <a list of subject appearance description phase, including hair, face, clothes>,
"identity": <a list of subject identity description shown in current video clip>,
"first_seen": <timestamp>
},
...
},
"clip_description": {
"subjects_present": [<subject_id_list>],
"captions": <a smooth and very detailed narration about the whole video clip>
}
}
Table 9: Prompts for captioning and subject extraction model Mdatabase in video database construction.
C
Broader Impacts
C.1
Positive Impacts
DVD facilitates natural language interaction with long-form video content, improving accessibility
for users with visual or cognitive impairments. It can also enhance efficiency in media summarization
and analysis, significantly reducing the need for manual review.
C.2
Negative Impacts
As DVD leverages large models (e.g., LLMs and VLMs) for captioning and reasoning, it inherits
common concerns such as potential bias from training data, which may result in inaccurate or
unfair interpretations of video content. Additionally, the agentic search process demands substantial
computational resources, raising sustainability and accessibility concerns.
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
// system prompt
You are a helpful assistant who can answer multistep questions by sequentially calling functions. Follow a
pattern of THOUGHT (reason step-by-step about which function to call next), ACTION (call a function to as
a next step towards the final answer), OBSERVATION (output of the function). Reason step by step which
actions to take to get to the answer.
Only call functions with arguments coming verbatim from the user or the output of other functions. Please
keep going until the user’s query is completely resolved, before ending your turn and yielding back to the
user. Only terminate your turn when you are sure that the problem is solved.
If you are not sure about file content or codebase structure pertaining to the user’s request, use your
tools to read files and gather the relevant information: do NOT guess or make up an answer.
You MUST plan extensively before each function call, and reflect extensively on the outcomes of the
previous function calls. DO NOT do this entire process by making function calls only, as this can impair
your ability to solve the problem and think insightfully.
The timestamp can be formatted as ’HH:MM:SS’ or ’MM:SS’.
// user prompt
Carefully read timestamp and narration in the following script. Pay attention to the cause and sequence of
events, the detail and movement of objects and the action and pose of persons.
You will be given a subject registry (which could be inaccurate) in this video and a video-level coarse
understanding of the question. Please output your think process and use corresponding functions if you can
not directly find answer from the given information.
+ CLIP_SEARCH_WITH_TIME_PLACEHOLDER If you need to find details without knowing the specific timespot,
please use ‘ClipSearch‘.
+ If the observed / searched information does not include accurate question-relevant content, e.g. ’unkown’
name or other cases, use ‘FrameInspect‘ to ask a fine-grained question within a list of the specified
time ranges (list[tuple[hhmmss, hhmmss]]).
+ If you can not make sure the answer by searched content, you should use ‘FrameInspect‘ to query related
content in specified time ranges.
+ If you have found answer in a specific script, you should use ‘FrameInspect‘ to ask a fine-grained
question to **confirm** it.
You can use multiple times of these functions to prgressively find the answer.
Based on your observations and returned result from functions, select the best option that accurately
addresses the question.
Question: [question]
Answer with the option’s letter from the given choices directly and only give the best option.
// history messages in the reasoning chain
[history messages]
Table 10: Prompts for reasoning model Mreasoning.
// system prompt
You are a helpful assistant to answer questions.
// user prompt
Carefully watch the video frames. Pay attention to the cause and sequence of events, the detail and
movement of objects and the action and pose of persons.
Based on your observations, if you find content that can answer the question, select the best option that
accurately answers the question. If no relevant content is found within the given time range, return: ‘
Error: Cannot find corresponding result in the given time range.‘.
Question: [question]
Table 11: Prompts for fine-grained detail query Mtool in Frame Inspect tool.
17

--- PAGE 18 ---
// system prompt
You are a helpful assistant to answer questions.
// user prompt
Carefully watch the video frames. Pay attention to the cause and sequence of events, the detail and
movement of objects and the action and pose of persons.
Based on your observations, provide detailed insights to help interpret the question and video. If you
find content that answers the question, suggest a possible answer. If no relevant content is found in the
sampled frames, returns ‘Error: Cannot find corresponding result in sampled frames.‘. Format the answer
into a single paragraph.
Question: [question]
Table 12: Prompts for query in Global Browse tool.
18

--- PAGE 19 ---
[
{
"function": {
"name": "global_browse",
"description": "Obtain a subject registry and relevant information about the query from the
whole video.\n\nReturns:\n str: A formatted subject registry includes multiple identical
attributes of subjects and a narration about relevant information about the query.\n",
"parameters": {
"properties": {
"database": {
"$ref": "#/$defs/NanoVectorDB",
"description": "The database object that supports querying with embeddings."
},
"query": {
"description": "A textual description of the question to search for.",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"database",
"query"
],
"type": "object"
}
},
"type": "function"
},
{
"function": {
"name": "clip_search",
"description": "Searches for events in a video clip database based on a given event description
and retrieves the top-k most relevant video clip captions.\n\nReturns:\n str: A formatted string
containing the concatenated captions of the searched video clip scripts.\n\nNotes:\n - This
function utilizes the OpenAI Embedding Service to generate embeddings for the input text.\n -
Use default values for ‘top_k‘ to limit the number of results returned.",
"parameters": {
"properties": {
"database": {
"$ref": "#/$defs/NanoVectorDB",
"description": "The database object that supports querying with embeddings."
},
"event_description": {
"description": "A textual description of the event to search for.",
"type": "string"
},
"top_k": {
"default": 16,
"description": "The maximum number of top results to retrieve. Just use the default
value.",
"type": "integer"
}
},
"required": [
"database",
"event_description"
],
"type": "object"
}
},
"type": "function"
}
]
Table 13: Function JSON schema for OpenAI model’s tool use. Part 1/2.
19

--- PAGE 20 ---
[
{
"function": {
"name": "frame_inspect",
"description": "Crop the video frames based on the time ranges and ask the model a detailed
question about the cropped video clips.\nReturns:\n str: The model’s response to the question.
If no relevant content is found within the time range,\n returns an error message: \"Error:
Cannot find corresponding result in the given time range.\"",
"parameters": {
"properties": {
"database": {
"$ref": "#/$defs/NanoVectorDB",
"description": "The database containing video metadata. Must be an instance of
NanoVectorDB."
},
"question": {
"description": "The specific detailed question to ask about the video content during
the specified time ranges. No need to add time ranges in the question.",
"type": "string"
},
"time_ranges_hhmmss": {
"description": "A list of tuples containing start and end times in HH:MM:SS format.
If the time range is longer than 50 seconds, the function samples 50 evenly
distributed frames. Otherwise, it uses all frames within the specified range.",
"items": {
"items": {},
"type": "array"
},
"type": "array"
}
},
"required": [
"database",
"question",
"time_ranges_hhmmss"
],
"type": "object"
}
},
"type": "function"
},
{
"function": {
"name": "answer",
"description": "Call this function after confirming the answer of the user’s question, and
finish the conversation.",
"parameters": {
"properties": {
"answer": {
"description": "Answer to the user’s question.",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"answer"
],
"type": "object"
}
},
"type": "function"
}
]
Table 14: Function JSON schema for OpenAI model’s tool use. Part 2/2.
20

--- PAGE 21 ---
Question
Question: What type of video is this?
(A) A technology documentary
(B) A news report
(C) A travel documentary
(D) A travel vlog
Agent (Step 1)
Calling tool Global Browse.
Global Browse
Subjects Information :
...
"subject_2": {
"name": "industrial_robot",
"appearance": ...
"identity": [
"Industrial automation robot, performing repetitive manufacturing or assembly
line tasks"
]
},
...
"subject_10": {
"name": "digital_face_scan_display",
"appearance": ...,
"identity": [
"Computer interface for facial recognition and identification, used for matching
and analyzing faces in security or surveillance contexts"
]
},
...
"subject_21": {
"name": "Pedro Domingos",
"appearance": ...,
"identity": [
"Academic expert and commentator, providing context on the Go match and
public expectations"
]
},
...
Event Information :
The montage shows extended, polished coverage of artificial−intelligence themes: the
AlphaGo challenge match and Google DeepMind branding, autonomous trucks on desert
highways, ... . Therefore, the video is best classified as a technology documentary.
Agent (Step 2)
Executing Asnwer: (A) A technology documentary. →Right
Figure 4: Case study of Global Browse Only behavior.
21

--- PAGE 22 ---
Question
Question: What happens when the villain’s mirror breaks?
(A) The mirror fragments automatically fuse on the ground into a whole mirror
again
(B) The mirror fragments cut the villain’s hand
(C) The mirror fragments are thrown away by the villains
(D) The mirror fragments fly into the sky
Agent (Step 1)
Calling tool Global Browse.
Global Browse
Subjects Information :
...
"subject_18": {
"name": "Baron Badblood",
"appearance": ...,
"identity": [
"Villainous character, shown invoking his magic mirror to reveal ..."
]
},
...
Event Information :
The scene shows the villain ...; the next shots focus on the villain angrily flinging the
pieces aside so that the multicolored shards clatter to the ground and lie scattered around
his lair; ... ; therefore the mirror fragments are thrown away by the villains.
Agent (Step 2)
Calling tool Clip Search with query "villain mirror breaks shards thrown away."
Clip Search
Searched Video Clip Scripts :
[00:03:7.0, 00:03:20.0] ... Baron Badblood stands before a large, ornate mirror ...
...
[00:09:46.0, 00:10:6.0] ... Baron strikes the mirror with a sword, causing it to shatter. The
shards explode outward, tumbling and spinning through the air as they scatter ...
...
[00:23:52.0, 00:24:4.0] ... The mirror shimmers with swirling pink light, ...
Agent (Step 3)
Calling tool Frame Inspect at ["00:09:46", "00:10:06"]: "What do the broken
pieces of the mirror do after Baron Badblood smashes it?"
Frame Inspect
Fine-grained Response :
The fragments come to life: they quiver, gather into a swirling flock and fly out of the
room, sailing away into the sky.
Agent (Step 4)
Executing Asnwer: (D) The mirror fragments fly into the sky. →Right
Figure 5: Case study of Simple Action behavior.
22

--- PAGE 23 ---
Question
Question: What does the man with the mustache do when boy, cat, and dog carrying
treasure chest, shovel and pickaxe back?
(A) He chases a cat
(B) He chases a cow
(C) He chases a dog
(D) He chases a bird
Agent (Step 1)
Calling tool Global Browse.
Global Browse
Subjects Information : ...
Event Information :
Among the night−time forest shots the boy, cat and dog are shown tramping back along
the path laden. The black−moustached postman suddenly rushes out and runs after Sharik
the dog, trying to grab the dog, while the cat and boy keep hold of the chest and tools.
Agent (Step 2)
Calling tool Clip Search with query "man with mustache chases dog while boy cat
carrying treasure chest".
Clip Search
Searched Video Clip Scripts :
...
[00:08:0.0, 00:08:20.0] ... the boy pushes a cart carrying a large, padlocked chest, followed
closely by the cat and dog, each carrying a pickaxe and shovel ... Overhead, a black crow
soars across the sky ... Meanwhile, the tall thin man rushes after the group, ...
...
Agent (Step 3)
Calling tool Frame Inspect at ["00:08:00", "00:08:24"]: "Describe exactly what
the tall thin adult man does as the boy, cat, and dog carry the treasure chest, shovel,
and pickaxe back along the path. Is he chasing anyone specifically?"
Frame Inspect
Fine-grained Response :
As the boy, cat, and dog come back, the man appears on the same path.
1. He is sprinting, coat and scarf flying, eyes fixed on the sky.
2. His arms reach up as he runs, grabbing at the air.
3. He never even looks at the boy, the animals or the chest; instead he is clearly trying to
reach the black crow.
4. The man leaps and claws at the air, following the crow’s flight.
So he is not chasing the boy, the cat, the dog or the treasure chest at all; he is chasing only
the crow that is carrying the white object.
Agent (Step 4)
Calling tool Clip Search with query "mustached man chases dog".
23

--- PAGE 24 ---
Clip Search
Searched Video Clip Scripts :
...
[00:33:12.0, 00:33:32.0] ... The cat darts away down the sandy road, desperate to escape,
while the dog quickly recovers and resumes the chase, bounding after the cat ...
...
Agent (Step 5)
Calling tool Clip Search with query "man with mustache chases crow".
Clip Search
Searched Video Clip Scripts :
...
[00:08:28.0, 00:08:48.0] ... The man points accusatorily at the boy and the crow,
prompting the boy to hand over a shiny white object which the crow had stolen earlier ...
...
Agent (Step 6)
Calling tool Frame Inspect at ["00:08:06", "00:08:14"]: "Does the man who is
running after the crow have a visible mustache? Describe his facial hair."
Frame Inspect
Cannot find corresponding result in the given time range.
Agent (Step 7)
Calling tool Frame Inspect at ["00:08:06", "00:08:14"]: "Does the tall thin man
chasing the crow have a mustache, beard, or is he clean-shaven?"
Frame Inspect
Fine-grained Response :
He has a mustache.
Agent (Step 8)
Executing Asnwer: (D) He chases a bird. →Right
Figure 6: Case study of Iterative Search behavior.
24

--- PAGE 25 ---
Question
Question: Why does the tall man cut off the chains at 21:49?
(A) To open the gate
(B) To blow out the candles
(C) To trigger a trap
(D) To help the character
Agent (Step 1)
Calling tool Global Browse.
Global Browse
Subjects Information : ...
Event Information :
The tall man steps up to a hanging length of chain that holds the barred door of a cell shut,
raises his sword and slices clean through the links; the chain clatters free and the cell door
can now be pushed open, allowing the wounded protagonist inside to be supported out.
Agent (Step 2)
Calling tool Frame Inspect at ["00:21:40", "00:21:58"]: "Why does the tall man
cut off the chains?"
Frame Inspect
Fine-grained Response :
He severs the ceiling chains so the candle-chandelier comes crashing down, plunging the
corridor into darkness, giving his companion a fighting chance to survive the attack.
Agent (Step 3)
Calling tool Frame Inspect at ["00:21:45", "00:21:55"]: "What happens immedi-
ately after the tall man slices through the chains hanging from the ceiling?"
Frame Inspect
Fine-grained Response :
The chain he cuts holds the candle-chandelier; as soon as it is severed, the chandelier
comes crashing down from the ceiling onto the floor.
Agent (Step 4)
Calling tool Frame Inspect at ["00:21:40", "00:22:10"]: "Does the tall man ever
cut a chain to open a gate or door around 21:49?"
Frame Inspect
Fine-grained Response :
No.
Agent (Step 5)
Executing Asnwer: (C) To trigger a trap. →Wrong
Figure 7: Case study of Frame Inspect Trap behavior.
25

--- PAGE 26 ---
Question
Question: What does the protagonist see through the window after she is taken to
the utility room?
(A) A group of monks sitting cross-legged in the snow
(B) A group of citizens chatting together
(C) A group of warriors practicing swords
(D) A group of samurais eating
Agent (Step 1)
Calling tool Global Browse.
Global Browse
Subjects Information : ...
Event Information :
Inside the cramped utility room the heroine peers out through the lattice window and her
eyes settle on the snow−covered courtyard where several monks sit cross-legged and bare−
chested despite the freezing weather, engaged in silent meditation.
Agent (Step 2)
Calling tool Clip Search with query "utility room window sees group monks cross-
legged snow".
Clip Search
Searched Video Clip Scripts :
...
[00:19:31.0, 00:19:42.0] ... As soft snowflakes drift through the pale morning air, the
solitary traveler appears on a frosted hill overlooking a vast, traditional Japanese town ...
Agent (Step 3)
Calling tool Clip Search with query "utility room protagonist looks through window
sees".
Clip Search
Searched Video Clip Scripts :
...
[00:02:2.0, 00:02:7.0] ... Dust motes drift lazily through beams of sunlight streaming from
the paper window, highlighting the wooden shelves lined with bowls ...
...
Agent (Step 4 - Step 14)
Calling tool Clip Search with queries :
"utility room small storage taken escorted feed him utility",
"utility room window look out",
...
"storeroom small room snow see out window"
Clip Search
Searched Video Clip Scripts :
...
26

--- PAGE 27 ---
Agent (Step 15)
Calling tool Clip Search with query "utility room".
Clip Search
Searched Video Clip Scripts :
...
[00:17:32.0, 00:17:49.0] ... The setting is dim and somber, likely a shelter or workshop
with stone flooring and faint light filtering in from the outside ...
...
Agent (Step 16)
Executing Asnwer: (A) A group of monks sitting cross-legged in the snow. →
Wrong
Figure 8: Case study of Clip Search Trap behavior.
27
